Docs for XBackend (#4931)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: site/content/en/reference/api-types/backend.md

---
title: "Backend"
weight: 11
---

{{< details title="Experimental Channel" color="purple" >}}
The `Backend` resource is part of the Experimental Channel.
For more information on release channels, refer to our
[versioning guide](/docs/concepts/versioning/).
{{< /details >}}

[Backend][backend] is a Gateway API type used to define a backend destination

> and backend-specific connection behavior for Gateway clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and backend-specific connection behavior for Gateways when they act as a client.
```
Just a small clarification nit.

---
title: "Backend"

> weight: 3

Reviewer 2: this weight is making the API appear just after Gateway, which is weird (https://deploy-preview-4931--kubernetes-sigs-gateway-api.netlify.app/reference/api-types/gateway/)

to be fair, I think we should create a subfolder with experimental resources and move them all way to the bottom.

I also want to create a subfolder for routes, so we can aggregate route types on a single place

---

{{< details title="Experimental Channel" color="purple" >}}
The `Backend` resource is part of the Experimental Channel.
For more information on release channels, refer to our
[versioning guide](/docs/concepts/versioning/).
{{< /details >}}

[Backend][backend] is a Gateway API type used to define a backend destination
and backend-specific connection behavior for Gateway clients.

## Background

A `Backend` provides a Gateway-native resource for describing where traffic
should go and how the Gateway should connect to that destination.

This is especially useful for:

> - Defining external destinations without synthetic `ExternalName` Services.

Reviewer 2: wanna mention somewhere why we accept Backend as ExternalHostname but not ExternalName?

Maybe it would be good to raise that part of the Backend goal is to mitigate risks that once happened with the usage of ExternalName, but that implementations must implement guardrails for ExternalHostname usage

Author: Yeah good call; added some language there
